Project Flow:
? User interacts with the UI to enter the input.
? Entered input is analysed by the model which is integrated.
? Once model analyses the input the prediction is showcased on the UI
To accomplish this, we have to complete all the activities listed below,
? Define Problem / Problem Understanding
? Specify the business problem
? Business requirements
? Literature Survey
? Social or Business Impact.
? Data Collection & Preparation
? Collect the dataset
? Data Preparation
? Exploratory Data Analysis
? Descriptive statistical
? Visual Analysis
? Model Building
? Training the model in multiple algorithms
? Testing the model
? Performance Testing & Hyperparameter Tuning
? Testing model with multiple evaluation metrics
? Comparing model accuracy before & after applying hyperparameter tuning
? Model Deployment
? Save the best model
? Integrate with Web Framework
? Project Demonstration & Documentation
? Record explanation Video for project end to end solution
? Project Documentation-Step by step project development procedure
Milestone 1: Define Problem / Problem Understanding
Activity 1: Specify the business problem
Refer Project Description
Activity 2: Business requirements
The business requirements for a machine learning model to predict personal loan approval include
the ability to accurately predict loan approval based on applicant information, Minimise the number
of false positives (approved loans that default) and false negatives (rejected loans that would have
been successful).Provide an explanation for the model's decision, to comply with regulations and
improve transparency.
Activity 3: Literature Survey (Student Will Write)
As the data is increasing daily due to digitization in the banking sector, people want to apply for
loans through the internet. Machine Learning (ML), as a typical method for information
investigation, has gotten more consideration increasingly. Individuals of various businesses are
utilising ML calculations to take care of the issues dependent on their industry information. Banks
are facing a significant problem in the approval of the loan. Daily there are so many applications
that are challenging to manage by the bank employees, and also the chances of some mistakes
are high.Most banks earn profit from the loan, but it is risky to choose deserving customers from
the number of applications.There are various algorithms that have been used with varying levels of
success. Logistic regression, decision tree, random forest, and neural networks have all been
used and have been able to accurately predict loan defaults. Commonly used features in these
studies include credit score, income, and employment history, sometimes also other features like
age, occupation, and education level.
Activity 4: Social or Business Impact.
Social Impact:- Personal loans can stimulate economic growth by providing individuals with the
funds they need to make major purchases, start businesses, or invest in their education.
Business Model/Impact:- Personal loan providers may charge fees for services such as loan
origination, processing, and late payments.Advertising the brand awareness and marketing to
reach out to potential borrowers to generate revenue.
Milestone 2: Data Collection & Preparation
ML depends heavily on data. It is the most crucial aspect that makes algorithm training possible. So this
section allows you to download the required dataset.
Activity 1: Collect the dataset
There are many popular open sources for collecting the data. Eg: kaggle.com, UCI repository, etc.
In this project we have used .csv data. This data is downloaded from kaggle.com. Please refer to
the link given below to download the dataset.
Link: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/altruistdelhite04/loan-prediction-problem-dataset
As the dataset is downloaded. Let us read and understand the data properly with the help of some
visualisation techniques and some analysing techniques.
Note: There are a number of techniques for understanding the data. But here we have used some
of it. In an additional way, you can use multiple techniques.